# Class Housekeeping

## Where We Are ##

What should have already done:
* Understand role of the terminal and bash
* basic bash commands for file system and processes
* learn to use git
	* understand how desktop and online work together
	* understand how desktop and files on the computer are related 
	* Understand the workflow (branch, edit, commit, sync, merge branches)
	
### Announcement

The next two classes (9/6 and 9/12) will be tours of the *IBEST Computational Resources Core*, led by Dr. Benji Oswald, the CRC Director.
The core facilties house state of the art high performance computers and data storage hardware (be sure to check out the air conditioning and power supply!).

The room is too small for the entire class, so Andrew will divide the class in half. 
Half will tour the center on the first half of class on 9/6 and the other on 9/12. 
The tour will probably not take the entire class period, so I encourage tourists (!) to come back to class for open lab.
When you're not on tour, the plan is to have an open lab in the classroom, with Andrew present to answer questions. 

On 9/13, Benji will give a guest lecture on how to use the CRC computers. 
We can provide access to the high performance computer in the classroom if you'd like to practice. 
(that's what that big box behind the lecturn is. It's name is *jayne*.
Yes, we are Firefly fans here)

In case you are wonder where I will be...
I will be out of the country. 
I'm a Fellow of the *Society for the Promotion of Evolutionary Computation in Europe and Surroundings*, 
so I sometimes need to travel to Europe for scientific meetings. 
This one is *Parallel Problem Solving from Nature*, in Coimbra Portugal. 

## Objectives for this class
* introduction to python
	* Syntax: spaces, comments
	* variables and variable types
	* control flow
* Jupyter notebooks
	* tab completion
	* introspection
	* getting information

# introduction to programming

* What is a program? 
* Kinds of programs: interpreted, compiled, in-between

Steps to learning how to program. It's like writing a book/paper

* Syntax: command by command (iPython is good for this)
* Stand-alone programs: building programs as files (TextWranger is good for this)
* Using other people's code: packages (pandas, matplotlib, e.g.)
* Style: writing **good** code

Most programming is *re-programming*, not creating things from scratch

# jupyter notebooks

* introspection: look "inside" things
* getting help: ? and ??

# Python #

## program syntax

* space and indentation (use *spaces*, not tabs)
* comments: two kinds, use them

## scalar data types

* int, float
* boolean
* string
	* pretty characters: \t, \n
	* immutable
	* methods: count(), upper(), lower(), find()
	* indexing

Type errors
* '1'+2

* type casting

## Print

syntax: *print('foo',x)

## control flow
	* boolean comparisons: ==, <, <=, ...
	* if/else
	* for

range()
len()
## everything is an object
	* data
	* methods






